China's political party system is part of our entire political system, because the Chinese Communist Party has already incorporated the multi-party cooperation and political consultation system led by the Communist Party of China into the Constitution. After decades of cooperation with the ruling party in accordance with this party system, we have already tasted the sweetness of this party system. We know that the two-party system in the United States and the multi-party system in Europe, but China's multi-party cooperation system, I feel that it is the most special. I also often have some classmates in the United States, because when I was studying at Yale, I also had some debates with them. They said that you can do some campaigns and competitions like ours. There is an old saying in China that the shoes are uncomfortable and only the feet know that there is no system in the world that is the best, but there must be a system that is most suitable for the development stage of this country.
Brunei Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah met in Bandar Seri Begawan on Tuesday with Zhou Tiennong, vice chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC).

China and Brunei are friendly neighbors and the relationship between the two countries has grown fully and rapidly since the two countries established diplomatic ties 18 years ago, Zhou said during the meeting.

Mutual trust in the field of politics between the two countries is deepening and bilateral cooperation in various fields is expanding, said Zhou, who is leading a delegation of Chinese legislators on a four-day visit to Brunei.

The two countries also maintain close coordination and collaboration on regional and international affairs, he said.

China appreciates the valuable support to China extended by Sultan Bolkiah and the Brunei Government on the Taiwan issue, Zhou noted.

China also appreciates Brunei's assistance to China after a disastrous earthquake stroke China's Sichuan Province last year, he said.

Bolkiah expressed satisfaction over the sound development of the ties between Brunei and China during his meeting with Zhou.

He was delighted with the frequent exchanges of visit between leaders of the two countries at various levels.

Bolkiah stressed that the Brunei Government firmly upheld the One-China policy and was willing to continue to push ahead the friendly cooperation between Brunei and China in various fields.

On Tuesday, Zhou also met with Brunei Foreign and Trade Minister Mohamed Bolkiah and the two sides exchanged views on bilateral ties and regional and international issues of common concern.

The two sides agreed to continue to make joint efforts to push ahead the friendly cooperation between the two countries and make contribution to the peace and prosperity in the region.

Zhou arrived in Bandar Seri Begawan on Monday at the invitation of the Brunei Government. He will meet with Brunei Legislative Council Speaker Pengiran Anak Kemaludin on Wednesday.
